Update llama3 70b and removes the neuron-top in update_neuron_sdk.sh script (#530)
aws-samples/awsome-distributed-training: 3.test_cases/neuronx-distributed/llama3/slurm/README.md

> First, we create python virtual environment installing `torch-neuronx` and `neuronx-distributed` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you will create python virtual environment to install `torch-neuronx` and `neuronx-distributed` .
```

Author: Fixed

```bash
# Install Python venv 

> sudo apt-get install -y python3.8-venv g++ 

Reviewer: Do we need Python 3.8? Why are we forcing a specific python version or even install python on hyperpod?

Author: The Neuron SDK depends on the default python version for a specific OS (Ubuntu20.04:python3.8). The wrong python version can lead to Neuron SDK installation/upgrade failure.

# Create Python venv

> python3.8 -m venv /fsx/ubuntu/aws_neuron_venv_pytorch 

Author: ??

# Activate Python venv 
source /fsx/ubuntu/aws_neuron_venv_pytorch/bin/activate 
python -m pip install -U pip 

> # Install Jupyter notebook kernel

Author: Removed the Jupyter installation.

pip install ipykernel 
python3.8 -m ipykernel install --user --name aws_neuron_venv_pytorch --display-name "Python (torch-neuronx)"
pip install jupyter notebook
pip install environment_kernels

# Set pip repository pointing to the Neuron repository 
python -m pip config set global.extra-index-url https://pip.repos.neuron.amazonaws.com

# Install wget, awscli, and huggingface-cli 
python -m pip install wget awscli huggingface_hub 

# Install Neuron Compiler and Framework
python -m pip install --upgrade neuronx-cc==2.* torch-neuronx==2.1.* torchvision

#Install the neuronx-distributed package 
python -m pip install neuronx_distributed --extra-index-url https://pip.repos.neuron.amazonaws.com
```

This test case tested with  Neuron SDK 2.21.0 which includes the following software stack:

```bash

> (aws_neuron_venv_pytorch) ubuntu:~$ pip list | grep neuron

Author: Since this virtual env is shared between the host and worker nodes, it only includes the compiler and other high level libraries pip installed but not the Neuron SDK like driver which depends on the Neuron device.

> (aws_neuron_venv_pytorch) ubuntu:~$ pip list | grep neuron

Reviewer 2: Hmm, that's true.

```bash
mkdir -p /fsx/ubuntu/llama3_70B/pretrained_weight

> sbatch --job-name=convert-checkpoint --output=logs/convert-checkpoint.out \

Reviewer: Please write a sbatch script instead of wrapping stuff.

Author: I can update this with a sbatch script. What is the main concern for wrapping stuff?

Reviewer 2: It's highly depends on NxD core repo and the scripts in it frequently being updated. So I'm against introducing sbatch scripts in ADR.

Reviewer 2: Besides, that is the way official doc is recommending https://awsdocs-neuron.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/libraries/neuronx-distributed/tutorials/training_llama_tp_pp.html

            "status": true,
            "retry": 0,
            "compile_time": 73.62903022766113
        },
        "/fsx/ubuntu/cache_dir_neuron/neuronxcc-2.16.372.0+4a9b2326/MODULE_2285528399009206869+3cc9a3cb/model.hlo_module.pb": {
            "status": true,
            "retry": 0,
            "compile_time": 52.13106894493103
        }
    },
    "start_time": 1737076372.4143333,
    "compilation_time": 225.76303887367249
}
2025-01-17 01:16:38.000177:  37654  INFO ||NEURON_PARALLEL_COMPILE||: Total graphs: 8
2025-01-17 01:16:38.000177:  37654  INFO ||NEURON_PARALLEL_COMPILE||: Total successful compilations: 8
2025-01-17 01:16:38.000177:  37654  INFO ||NEURON_PARALLEL_COMPILE||: Total failed compilations: 0

```

Now we can submit the real training job as follows:

```bash
sbatch --job-name run_llama3_70B \
       --output logs/run_llama3_70B.out \
       --exclusive --nodes 16 \
       --wrap="srun bash $(pwd)/run_llama3_70B_tp_pp.sh"
```

If you are on HyperPod add the `--auto-resume=1` flag as follows:
```bash
sbatch --job-name run_llama3_70B \
       --output logs/run_llama3_70B.out \
       --exclusive --nodes 16 \

>        --wrap="srun --auto-resume=1 bash run_llama3_70B_tp_pp.sh"

Reviewer 3: Have you tested auto-resume with this sample? Want to be sure the `--wrap` is compatible with auto-resume, have seen some funky behavior in past

Author: Yes, I checked the `--auto-resume=1` command with `--wrap` and it runs fine. What issue did you see? The current command "srun `--auto-resume=1 `bash run_llama3_70B_tp_pp.sh" does lead to a syntax error though. It needs to change to "srun --auto-resume=1 bash run_llama3_70B_tp_pp.sh".

Reviewer 3: https://catalog.workshops.aws/sagemaker-hyperpod/en-US/07-resiliency/02-inject-error

Reviewer 2: Will update blog post to illustrate the test result.

Author: Yes, this was tested with a triggered failure node. The training resumes as expected. Could you please share the internal SIM ticket related to this?
